---
layout: post
title: "The End of the Road: Phase_0"
date: 2014-06-20 13:17:18
---

I have exactly 3 more days until the 9 weeks of DBC's phase_0 are over. I am able to understand why DBC places great emphasis on how important phase_0 really is. In addition, there are some challenges in the beginning of the weeks of phase_0 that really make you question why you would need to read up on certain things to be able to learn how to code. For example, during the first week of phase_0, DBC had a challenge that instructed you to identify your [Gregorc Thinking Styles](http://web.cortland.edu/andersmd/learning/gregorc.htm). I thought to myself, "Why would I need to know how I think in order to learn how to code?!" I hesitantly and reluctantly took the thinking quiz as instructed, and learned that I am a abstract random thinker.

To be honest, this really didn't help me much to know this tidbit of information about myself...UNTIL the final days of phase_0. "Ah...so this is why DBC made me take this thinking style quiz," I said to myself. Every weekly submission, I told DBC that I wanted the instructions to be clearer; I didn't like the openness of the challenges and how I was told to just google topics I didn't understand. I was a little upset that maybe I wasn't getting my money's worth; after all, I did spend an arm and a leg to be able to learn a subject that essentially I can learn for free with the resources online. But now I understand that this isn't DBC's fault, but the ignorance of myself. If I paid attention to the quiz I took at the beginning of phase_0, I would have known that I love to learn in a personalized environment. Of course DBC cannot personalize each challenge to each, individual student! If I was more self-aware of the characteristics of being an abstract random thinker, I would have changed my strategy for completing the challenges each week. For example, maybe I could have done more tutoring sessions that DBC provides and ask very specific questions I had about a challenge. This would be a perfect example of realizing what I wanted versus what I needed.

Another topic during the beginning weeks of phase_0 DBC made me read up on is the idea of a [growth vs fixed mindset](http://michaelgr.com/2007/04/15/fixed-mindset-vs-growth-mindset-which-one-are-you/). I am guessing that every student, including myself, read about the two mindsets thought that having a growth mindset is better. I strongly feel that having a growth mindset will help during the weeks at DBC. It's so easy to read about a growth mindset, but to apply it to myself is a different story. After going through phase_0, I see that I was a combination of a fixed and growth mindset. I embraced challenges, but gave up easily if I couldn't solve them. I learned from the criticism given to me by my peers, but I felt threatened when I saw their beautiful websites created during phase_0. I am unsure if this was because I was a fixed mindset before and throughout the weeks of phase_0 began to change to a growth mindset, or if I am just a combination of the two to begin with. However, I must remind myself that habits, personality, and mindsets are the hardest things to change in life. I assumed that because I read about the two mindsets, I would easily be able to choose between the two and apply it to myself. I thought that once I chose one, that mindset is what I will have for the rest of DBC, or even my life. However, life doesn't work like that (I wish it did). There is a [30 day rule](http://thesecretaudio.wordpress.com/2007/05/04/discipline-30-days-to-form-a-new-habit/) that states in order to change anything about a lifestyle, it would take 30 days to do so. Therefore, the mistake wasn't in choosing a particular mindset. The mistake was not continuing to do so.

I get so pumped and excited when I look back during phase_0. I've learned a lot of code, but more importantly, I learned a lot about myself. It's hard to see any differential with myself if I am comparing myself on a day to day basis. However, when I take a look at myself 2 months ago and myself right now, I am amazed to see how much I have grown and learned, and thankful for DBC to give me the resources to do so.