---
layout: post
title: "DBC Phase_1: Day 14"
date: 2014-07-12 15:04:33 -0400
---

Today was the last day of phase_1, which also meant that it was graduation day for the phase_3 cohort. A couple of employers were to come the phase_3 cohorts' presentations. I was excited myself to see the projects. I pictured myself in their position in 6 more weeks.

<!--more-->

A project was assigned yesterday. The only criteria to follow was that the project revolved around ActiveRecord. Our group started out with creating a copy of Yelp in which users can view and rate restaurants around a given neighborhood. It started off well as our group of 7 split up into 3 groups: one group for ActiveRecord layout, one group for encrypting passwords, and one group to create methods that users can use. One problem we immediately faced was the GitHub workflow. We all knew to create our own branch and push our work to our branch, but what about the master branch? In addition, we all were working on different projects, so none of us were on the same page. I later proposed to push the ActiveRecord layout to the master first, and to have everyone start working from the layout so we can be all on the same page. However, what if one group pushes to master, what would happen to all of the other groups' work since they are all working on an old version of the layout? After asking around quite a bit, I found out that it is best to have a merge master, and instead of pushing to the master, the groups create a pull request. The merge master would then take a look at the submitted request, and merge it into master if deemed satisfactory. I definitely want to discuss more of this in detail on Monday...

Graduation was at 4:00PM, and it was awesome to see the ceremony. There was a lot of clapping, cheers, and smiles! After the ceremony, the graduates went to [Ulysses](http://www.yelp.com/biz/ulysses-folk-house-new-york-2). My cohort presented the projects and joined the graduates after! I had so much fun with all the DBC students and teachers. It was also very refreshing to have drinks with all of them outside of DBC.

Unfortunately, I arrived at my apartment at 2:00AM despite leaving NYC at 11:00PM. There is construction at the George Washington Bridge, so all but one lane are closed. After settling down, I quickly fell asleep. It was good to get a good night's sleep after a wonderful, busy week.